Today we're going to talk about how
standard TRT is wrong.
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on all things human
physiology, nutrition, sometimes
pharmaceuticals, and hormones. I'm going
to talk a little bit about some
different stuff than you would normally
hear from the typical fitness
influencer. Today, we're going to talk
about how standard TRT,
which means testosterone replacement
therapy, is wrong. It's the way it's
prescribed, the way it's administered,
the medications used, all incorrect. And
you're going to understand by the end of
this video why and what to do about it.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
show you an infographic which I have
created and I'm going to go over the
different elements of this infographic
and I'll put them on screen so you can
see them. So, when you look at this, you
will notice towards the bottom. Now,
this is testosterone over a 24-hour
period in a number of different
individuals in a number of different
scenarios. Now you will see the first
line we're going to talk about is in
gray and it's towards the bottom and it
sort of tracks the green line. So that
what you see in gray is
somebody with normal testosterone
later in life maybe in their 30s or 40s.
So they're only up at around 600 NOGS to
the deciliter at peak. But that peak is
only an hour or two
or three after they wake up, which
normally is when your testosterone is
supposed to be high. So you wake up,
your testosterone starts climbing 2 or 3
hours, then it drops back down. So, the
idea that when your TRT physician and
your endocrinologist
tells you you need to go do blood work
to understand where your testosterone
level is at, it's funny because they
don't tell you what time to test it. If
you get it tested in the morning, you're
going to show higher. If you get it
tested later in the day, it's going to
show lower. And
individuals should really do multiple
tests to figure this out. But of course,
having you go back a couple of times to
a blood lab is just not convenient or
anything anybody wants to do. So
physicians don't do that. Also, they
don't really know what I'm talking about
because this this is a very different
understanding, which brings us to the
second line I want you to pay attention
to, which is the red one. Now, this is
standard TRT. The red line is standard
TRT at the beginning of the week. The
purple line is standard TRT towards the
end of the week, which means it drops
down. Now, this scale is over 24-hour
period. So, within different days, the
level stays high uh and it and it drops
down to
whatever whatever level it is, it gets
it gets considerably lower if somebody
is doing a once a week shot. Now, the
mentality for testosterone replacement
in the past has always been we want to
keep levels high on a 24-hour basis.
This is the problem. It's not supposed
to be that way. Your body only has it
high in the mornings and then it's low
at night. So the question I began to
ask, this was a few years ago,
maybe the only reason we have side
effects to taking exogenous tes
testosterone is because
we have testosterone high at night. Now,
you'll also notice this sort of dark
circle at the end of the infographic.
This represents nighttime and more more
specifically
when at night when testosterone is high
this is where the side effects come from
because your body sees you of high
testosterone at night time. Well, that's
a problem. So, you start converting to
estrogen. You start upregulating SHBG
which stands for sex hormone binding
globbulin. sex hormone meaning
testosterone binding meaning it grabs a
hold of the testosterone and keeps it
from attaching to a receptor site. So
it's not it's not that SHBG is bad, but
SHBG is the body's mechanism to get rid
of testosterone when you have too much.
So when people get on TRT, they [snorts]
start upregulating SHBG and after about
60 days, you'll notice your TRT isn't
working like it was the first couple of
weeks. Now, the reason steroid users do
cycles, and you'll see this all over the
internet when if you follow or try to
learn about how people do that. The
reason they do that is to avoid SHBG.
And what they'll do is they'll have a
certain dose and after two months
they'll bump the dose up because they're
trying they're always trying to keep the
body from catching up with the SHBG over
time. So they'll they'll do a certain
amount and then they'll up that that
certain amount and then they cycle
completely off. Now, this is associated
with all sorts of horrible emotional
side effects, uh, horrible physical side
effects.
I've said this in many, many videos.
It's not worth it. But that's the
they have to go through to get these
high levels of hormones in their system
and get the results. They have to deal
with all these side effects. Totally not
worth it. Also, there are some
longerterm side effects, cardiac side
effects. A lot of those are nuanced
because they're sometimes it's if
somebody takes anabolic drugs and then
uh has a really poor diet, well man,
they're really compounding their
problems. So, I am against that.
However, I do want to point out that
this blue line that I put on the
infographic is represent representing
one of the only clinical trials that was
ever done with a steroid level cycle
because testosterone replacement therapy
is typically you're prescribed maybe 150
milligrams a week whereas this
particular steroid cycle that was
studied and this was from the New
England Journal of Medicine this was 600
millig grams a week. Uh, and you know,
considerably higher. Also, TR the TRT
that was that was in the study that I
put on here was 200 mg per week. So, you
see with 600 this this this individual
is at 3200
nanog to the deciliter. That's when
you're on cycle. Now, when you do a
cycle, you have to take an equal amount
of time off of the cycle. So this is
let's say they're going as hard as they
can as steroid some steroid users do.
That means half the year they're at this
level and then the other half the year
they're basically just crashed and
feeling absolutely miserable. But it's
important to point out their their level
and the associated gains that they get
from that. Now this is
really important. the two elements on
this infographic. First, the green line.
This is the suspended in castor oil
pills. So, it's a pill with testosterone
under canowit
suspended in castor oil. And you take
these pills and you have to eat fats
with them. And there's there's a couple
that are out there on the market. When
you do this, you can have a sort of
daily dose of testosterone. Now, the
protocol that these guys tend to use is
a dose twice per day, which does not
make much sense because you would want
to you would want it all upfront at the
beginning of the day to avoid the side
effects. So, the way they have dosed it,
it's seeming seemingly to
stick with this mentality that you want
high testosterone all throughout the
day, and you absolutely do not. So,
that's a huge mistake. Uh, now people
can dose it all at once up front in the
morning, but that's typically not how
the physician is telling you how to do
that. And I don't know, maybe someday
they'll wake up, but what they're
telling you is wrong. Now, the most
important thing on this infographic is
obviously the orange line. So, this is
fast acting testosterone. What was
particularly in on this test was uh
what's called Nandrogen and that's being
launched uh as we speak
uh on a website called oralonly.com.
Now when you use this testosterone is
very fast acting. Now what ends up
happening is you squirt this gel under
your tongue and you hold it there for
about 90 seconds and in that 90 seconds
it permeates the mucous membrane
underneath your tongue and gets into the
bloodstream. Now this is unestrified
testosterone cuz somebody will ask that
question. So that means it's basically
like an IV of testosterone. So the
testosterone finds the receptor sites
and then goes down.
Really amazing part about this is it
actually drives your SHBG
down,
not up.
So for example, my SHBG is 8.9
to the deciliter. Normal is 40. Now I've
seen some people with 120. If you have
120 SHBG, you're probably not able to
build much muscle because your SHBG is
attaching to the testosterone and
nullifying it basically making it
worthless. So that line right there,
that's what you get with fast acting
testosterone. Now, Nandrogen is not the
only approach. You could do daily
injections of testosterone suspension. I
did a TED talk where I referenced that
and I won't go into the details but
injecting testosterone suspension it
crystallizes when it's suspended. So
it's sort of like injecting shards of
broken glass very painful and you got to
do it every day. So while I don't
recommend that, that is a way to use
fast acting testosterone. But Nandrogen,
which I was part of the creation of that
product, it hits all the objectives
where we want a high level of
testosterone when the body naturally has
you having a high level of testosterone
and then it drops off back to a normal
level of testosterone.
So you avoid ever upregulating SHBG. And
this is the important part. This means
that your TRT will give you gains every
day, unlike regular TRT, which basically
stops working after 60 days. And you
don't want to cycle it because you don't
want to run into the problems that a
steroid user runs into. And why would
you? because you're at a replacement
dosage, which is supposed to be
at a level where you're not triggering
the side effects, but that that doesn't
happen. And if you wanted to have a sort
of sustained low level of testosterone,
then you basically get nothing. So,
that's not very exciting and not really
worth the trouble. So,
fast acting testosterone, this is the
thing. Now, I'm going to
give you
what I believe to be true, but has not
been tested, and I don't know how we
would test it in a clinical environment.
But some bodybuilders will no doubt use
more than the 15 milligram. So, by the
way, that orange line, 15 milligrams a
day is what it took to get that line
there. That's uh if you total that up,
15 milligs times 7. So 7 days in a week,
that's 105 milligrams. Well, the
standard TRT dose is more like 150. So
that's actually less than a standard TRT
dose, and you have massively more
testosterone attaching to receptor sites
by using the fast acting. So if somebody
were to have maybe a more normal dosage,
maybe 20 milligrams a day, they would do
even better than this. But the the point
is it doesn't stop working like standard
TRT and like a steroid cycle. So it's
almost like you're doing a cycle for 2
hours every day and then the rest of the
hours of the day the body's just
functioning normally.
When you use testosterone like this, you
do not suppress your natural
testosterone. You do not shut down your
natural testicular function. You do not
upregulate SHBG. In fact, you drive it
down. You do not have
high levels of conversion to estradiol.
That that one may be different depending
on the person. I've had about 100 people
taking this over the last year and we've
seen a little bit of estradiol effects,
but nothing near where like the normal
TRT conversion. uh and also no
hematocrit issues, the thickening of the
blood, it's just not seen. So really
most of the
side effects are gone and you can grow
in perpetuity. So not the same growth as
like the steroid cycle guys, but you
have growth that doesn't stop, which is
unlike the steroid cycle guys. And it's
also unlike the people who take
testosterone replacement therapy. This
I'm predicting this is the way the TRT
is going to be in the future. And uh I
recommend you go to oralonly.com and
learn more. Thanks. If you want to argue
with me in the comments and tell me I'm
wrong, that's cool. Uh I will address
your concerns there. Thanks. See you on
the next one. If this video helped you,
I want you to subscribe and follow. I'm
going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. We've got the answer for you.